# MadScientists
====
##Goals
Our group was tasked with investigating the change in allele frequency between Generation6 and Geneation12 of each replicate population, and to investigate the change in allele frequency across all generations to see if it was random within the genome or specific to location within the genome.

##The Process
To begin the investigation of change in SNPs between Generation6 and Generation12, all the replicate population vcf files for Generation6 and Generation12  were [extracted](https://github.com/AUIntroBioinformatics/MadScientists/blob/master/Extract_my_sample.sh) from the master vcf file. After extracting the individual vcf files, we generated vcf files with [ONLY SNPs](https://github.com/AUIntroBioinformatics/MadScientists/blob/master/Keep_SNPs.sh) within them. The [allelic freqeuncy](https://github.com/AUIntroBioinformatics/MadScientists/blob/master/AlleleFrequency.sh) was obtained for all the replicate populations for Generation6 and Generation12. To investigate the regions with the greatest change in SNPs frequency between Generation6 to Generation12, these files would have been uploaded to R to generate a [Manhattan-like plot](), however, these files were not in the correct format, so Dr. Stevenson provided us with the correct format a csv file. Five [Manhattan-like plots]() were produced for this time point for the five populations with a cutoff value of the mean plus four times standard deviation. As a group, we were supposed to share vcf files containing [ONLY INDELs](https://github.com/AUIntroBioinformatics/MadScientists/blob/master/Keep_indels.sh) with "Snapes on a Plane", however, the master vcf file did not cotain INDELs.

To investigate if the change in allele frequency was random within the genome or concentrated to specific sites in the genome, we constructed [Venn Diagrams]().  To construct these [Venn Diagrams], we cordinated with "Snapes on a Plane" to get their change in SNPs between Founder to Generation1 data and "The Ladies" to get their change in SNPs between Generation12 and Generation18 data. These groups provided us with SNPS that were above our specifed cutoff value, which contained the location on the chromosome that the SNP occured. The regions with the greatest change in allele frequency were compared across all of the time points (Founder to Generation6, Generation6 to Generation12, and Generation12 to Generation18), which was displayed as a Venn diagram in R for each replicate population.
